UI  - 25600719
TI  - The prevalence and burden of migraine and severe headache in the United States: updated statistics from government health surveillance studies.
AB  - The US National Center for Health Statistics, which is part of the Centers for Disease Control, conducts ongoing public health surveillance activities. The US Armed Forces also maintains a comprehensive database of medical information. We aimed to identify the most current prevalence estimates of migraine and severe headache in the United States adult civilian and active duty service populations from these national government surveys, to assess stability of prevalence estimates over time, and to identify additional information pertinent to the burden and treatment of migraine and other severe headache conditions. epidemiology headache migraine military prevalence Age Distribution Female Headache Health Care Surveys Humans Male Migraine Disorders Military Medicine Population Surveillance Sex Factors United States

UI  - 25399855
TI  - The evolution and geographic distribution of headache medicine fellowship programs and graduates: an observational study.
AB  - We sought to assess the experiences, growth, and distribution of accredited headache medicine fellowships since accreditation began in 2007, and to examine the number and current practice locations of fellows graduated from those programs. ethnic disparity fellowship training headache medicine physician supply racial disparity Censuses Curriculum Demography Fellowships and Scholarships Female Headache Humans Male Neurology Observational Study as Topic Program Evaluation Retrospective Studies United States

UI  - 24958300
TI  - Joint hypermobility and headache: the glue that binds the two together--part 2.
AB  - Past studies have reported that connective tissue disorders (CTDs) are more common in patients with specific types of headache disorders. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Marfan's syndrome connective tissue disorder headache joint hypermobility syndrome migraine Connective Tissue Diseases Cross-Sectional Studies Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome Headache Humans Joint Instability Marfan Syndrome Observational Study as Topic

UI  - 24845308
TI  - Superficial artery aneurysms underlying nummular headache--2 cases and proposed diagnostic work-up.
AB  - Nummular headache, considered a primary headache in the 3rd edition of the InternationalClassification ofHeadacheDisorders, has nonetheless been attributed in several occasions to underlying epicranial anomalies. epicranial headache fusiform aneurysm nummular headache occipital artery superficial temporal artery triptan Aged Aneurysm Cerebral Angiography Headache Humans Male Middle Aged Scalp Temporal Arteries Ultrasonography, Doppler, Color

UI  - 24842523
TI  - Headache in a patient with crowned dens: report of a new case.
AB  - Crowned dens syndrome (CDS) is a clinical-radiological entity characterized by acute attacks of neck pain with fever, rigidity, general signs of inflammation, and calcification of the periodontoid articular structures. Valsalva crowned dens syndrome, unilateral headache hemicrania continua postural change Aged, 80 and over Anti-Inflammatory Agents, Non-Steroidal Calcinosis Cervical Vertebrae Connective Tissue Headache Humans Indomethacin Male Neck Pain

UI  - 24766291
TI  - Headache in children with Chiari I malformation.
AB  - Headache is the most common symptom of Chiari 1 malformation, a condition characterized by the herniation of cerebellar tonsils through the foramen magnum. However, the headache pattern of cases with Chiari 1 malformations is not well defined in the literature, especially in children. Chiari 1 malformation ICHD-II cerebellar tonsils herniation children headache Adolescent Arnold-Chiari Malformation Child Child, Preschool Female Headache Humans Infant Longitudinal Studies Male Neuroimaging Retrospective Studies

UI  - 24750042
TI  - Clinical aspects of headache in HIV.
AB  - Headaches are commonly seen in those patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and are the most common form of pain reported among HIV patients. There have been relatively few studies attempting to determine the rates and phenotypes of the headaches that occur in patients with HIV. HIV abortive headache migraine opportunistic preventive Adult Brain Female HIV Infections Headache Humans Magnetic Resonance Imaging Male Middle Aged

UI  - 24697284
TI  - Bullying victimization at school and headache: a meta-analysis of observational studies.
AB  - Being bullied at school is a risk factor for a variety of negative consequences, including somatic problems. The purpose of this meta-analysis is to determine the association between peer victimization and headache in the school-age population. bullying headache meta-analysis physical health victimization Adolescent Bullying Child Crime Victims Female Headache Humans Male Observational Study as Topic Peer Group Schools Students

UI  - 24750017
TI  - Treatment adherence in patients with headache: a systematic review.
AB  - To review and critically evaluate the extant research literature pertaining to adherence in youth and adults with headache and to provide recommendations for future research. adherence headache migraine patient compliance pediatric self-management Databases, Bibliographic Headache Humans Medication Adherence Patient Compliance

UI  - 24261314
TI  - Melatonin responsive hemicrania continua in which indomethacin was associated with contralateral headache.
AB  - Headache is a well-documented side effect of indomethacin in the older medical literature; however, it has rarely been commented on in indomethacin-responsive hemicrania continua. We describe the case of a 60-year-old woman with left-sided hemicrania continua whose indomethacin treatment was associated with a continuous right-sided migraine. Her indomethacin therapy was discontinued heralding a return of her left-sided hemicrania continua and a resolution of her right-sided migraine. Her hemicrania continua then responded well to melatonin, with recurrence on stopping and improvement on restarting. This is the most detailed description of headache as a side effect of indomethacin in a headache patient we are aware of, and one of only a few reported cases of melatonin-responsive hemicrania continua. We review the evidence of headache as a side effect of indomethacin in order to highlight its importance in the treatment of headache disorders. We emphasize that indomethacin headache response may be more than simply a beneficial or neutral one and might be relevant to some cases of apparently indomethacin-resistant hemicrania continua. We hope this case may encourage clinicians to inquire about headache as a potential side effect of indomethacin. hemicrania continua indomethacin indomethacin-resistant hemicrania continua Anti-Inflammatory Agents, Non-Steroidal Central Nervous System Depressants Female Headache Humans Indomethacin Melatonin Middle Aged Migraine Disorders

UI  - 23980919
TI  - Correlation of headache frequency and psychosocial impairment in migraine: a cross-sectional study.
AB  - To investigate if a headache frequency of 15 days per month constitutes a turning point in the psychosocial impairment associated with migraine. anxiety chronic migraine depression episodic migraine migraine quality of life Adult Aged Cohort Studies Cross-Sectional Studies Disability Evaluation Disabled Persons Female Headache Humans Male Middle Aged Migraine Disorders Mood Disorders Quality of Life Questionnaires Statistics as Topic Statistics, Nonparametric

UI  - 24527723
TI  - Headache in autoimmune diseases.
AB  - Autoimmune diseases are a group of heterogeneous inflammatory disorders characterized by systemic or localized inflammation, leading to ischemia and tissue destruction. These include disorders like systemic lupus erythematosus and related diseases, systemic vasculitides, and central nervous system (CNS) vasculitis (primary or secondary). Headache is a very common manifestation of CNS involvement of these diseases. Although headache characteristics can be unspecific and often non-diagnostic, it is important to recognize because headache can be the first manifestation of CNS involvement. Prompt recognition and treatment is necessary not only to treat the headache, but also to help prevent serious neurological sequelae that frequently accompany autoimmune diseases. In this review, we discuss headache associated with autoimmune diseases along with important mimics. central nervous system vasculitis primary angiitis of the central nervous system primary headache secondary central nervous system vasculitis secondary headache Autoimmune Diseases Diagnosis, Differential Headache Humans

UI  - 23981007
TI  - Headache as a crucial symptom in the etiology of convexal subarachnoid hemorrhage.
AB  - Convexal subarachnoid hemorrhage has been associated with different diseases, reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome and cerebral amyloid angiopathy being the 2 main causes. amyloid headache subarachnoid hemorrhage thunderclap Aged Brain Diseases Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy Female Headache Humans Male Middle Aged Subarachnoid Hemorrhage Vasospasm, Intracranial

UI  - 24266337
TI  - Choosing wisely in headache medicine: the American Headache Society's list of five things physicians and patients should question.
AB  - In an effort to draw attention to tests and procedures associated with low-value care in headache medicine, the American Headache Society (AHS) joined the Choosing Wisely initiative of the American Board of Internal Medicine Foundation. The AHS president appointed an ad hoc "Choosing Wisely" task force of the AHS. The committee surveyed AHS members to develop a candidate list of items for the AHS "Top 5" list of low-value care in headache medicine. Through a process of literature review and consensus, the final list of five items was chosen. Draft recommendations went through several rounds of revision and a process of outside review. The AHS Board of Directors approved the final list of "Five Things." The five recommendations approved by the AHS Board of Directors are: (1) don't perform neuroimaging studies in patients with stable headaches that meet criteria for migraine; (2) don't perform computed tomography imaging for headache when magnetic resonance imaging is available, except in emergency settings; (3) don't recommend surgical deactivation of migraine trigger points outside of a clinical trial; (4) don't prescribe opioid- or butalbital-containing medications as a first-line treatment for recurrent headache disorders; and (5) don't recommend prolonged or frequent use of over-the-counter pain medications for headache. We recommend that headache medicine specialists and other physicians who evaluate and treat headache disorders should use this list when discussing care with patients. Choosing Wisely headache imaging medication overuse migraine surgery Choice Behavior Headache Humans Patient Participation Physician's Role Physicians Practice Guidelines as Topic Societies, Medical United States

UI  - 24512574
TI  - Obesity and headache: part I--a systematic review of the epidemiology of obesity and headache.
AB  - Individually, both obesity and headache are conditions associated with a substantial personal and societal impact. Recent data support that obesity is comorbid with headache in general and migraine specifically, as well as with certain secondary headache conditions such as idiopathic intracranial hypertension. In the current manuscript, we first briefly review the epidemiology of obesity and common primary and secondary headache disorders individually. This is followed by a systematic review of the general population data evaluating the association between obesity and headache in general, and then obesity and migraine and tension-type headache disorders. Finally, we briefly discuss the data on the association between obesity and a common secondary headache disorder that is associated with obesity, idiopathic intracranial hypertension. Taken together, these data suggest that it is important for clinicians and patients to be aware of the headache/migraine-obesity association, given that it is potentially modifiable. Hypotheses for mechanisms of the obesity-migraine association and treatment considerations for overweight and obese headache sufferers are discussed in the companion manuscript, as part II of this topic. body mass index headache migraine obesity Comorbidity Headache Humans Incidence Intracranial Hypertension Migraine Disorders Obesity Risk Factors

UI  - 23848291
TI  - The association between use of dietary supplements and headache or migraine complaints.
AB  - To examine the prevalence of headache or migraine complaints and the use of dietary supplements, and to determine their correlation according to sex. headache migraine sex difference use of dietary supplement Adolescent Adult Aged Ascorbic Acid Chlorophyta Cross-Sectional Studies Dietary Supplements Female Headache Health Surveys Humans Male Middle Aged Migraine Disorders Prevalence Sex Factors Taiwan Vitamin B Complex Young Adult

UI  - 25155245
TI  - Ictal epileptic headache: a review of current literature and differentiation from migralepsy and other epilepsies.
AB  - Ictal headaches are increasingly becoming the focus of research as more data demonstrate headaches existing as a sole manifestation of an epileptic event. Due to the difficulty in diagnosing the event as an epileptic phenomenon as opposed to a migraine, the condition is often misdiagnosed. This paper seeks to review the current published literature on ictal epileptic headaches as well as provide differentiation between ictal headaches and similarly presenting conditions. In doing so, we hope to improve the diagnosis of ictal headaches and thus improve patient care. We review two case studies that exemplify the potential of multiple conditions with comparable symptoms to ictal headaches, and discuss how to differentiate the variable diagnoses. As of the writing of this paper, there is no universally agreed upon set of features of ictal headaches; however, reviewing the current literature, there do seem to be several features that should be noted when treating patients. More research on the pathophysiology of ictal epileptic headaches needs to be done before the condition can be fully understood. epilepsy ictal headache migraine migralepsy Adolescent Child Electroencephalography Epilepsy Female Headache Humans Male

UI  - 24527699
TI  - Neurostimulation for neck pain and headache.
AB  - Patients with medically refractory headache disorders are a rare and challenging-to-treat group. The introduction of peripheral neurostimulation (PNS) has offered a new avenue of treatment for patients who are appropriate surgical candidates. The utility of PNS for headache management is actively debated. Preliminary reports suggested that 60-80% of patients with chronic headache who have failed maximum medical therapy respond to PNS. However, complications rates for PNS are high. Recent publication of 2 large randomized clinical trials with conflicting results has underscored the need for further research and careful patient counseling. In this review, we summarize the current evidence for PNS in treatment of chronic migraine, trigeminal autonomic cephalagias and occipital neuralgia, and other secondary headache disorders. chronic migraine cluster headache headache occipital nerve stimulator occipital neuralgia peripheral neurostimulation Electric Stimulation Therapy Headache Humans Neck Pain

UI  - 24512043
TI  - Influence of family psychiatric and headache history on migraine-related health care utilization.
AB  - We sought to examine the relationship of family history of headache and family history of psychiatric disorders on self-reported health care utilization tendencies for migraine treatment. anxiety depression family history headache health care utilization psychiatric Analgesics Anxiety Complementary Therapies Depression Headache Humans Migraine Disorders

UI  - 24735239
TI  - Pathophysiological mechanisms of headache in patients with HIV.
AB  - The pathophysiology of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is complex. The etiology of headache in the HIV population is often multifactorial, and attributing causality to specific pathophysiological mechanisms is challenging. Headaches can occur any time during the infection and may be primary (as in non-HIV-infected patients) or secondary (either from HIV directly or due to opportunistic disease). HIV glutamate excitotoxicity migraine opportunistic infection HIV Infections Headache Humans

